Day 1
-----

Lecture 1 (IEP): Introduction

The decision problem. Hilbert Ackermann Church, Turing, Trakhtenbrot.
An example.
Defintiions of (finite) validity and (finite) satisfiability; duality.
Recursively enumerable and co-recursively enumerable.
Fragments of FO. The classification problem.
Definitions of Sat(\cL) and FinSat(\cL).
Finite model property and decidability.
Complexity.
Preview.


Lecture 2 (BB): The monadic fragment

Lower and the upper bound. Finite model property

Day 2

Lecture 3 (IEP): The two-variable fragment

Scott normal form and re-writing.
The small model property and upper complexity bound (lower bound
   inherited from Monadic Fragment (day 1).

Lecture 4 (BB): The lower bound for the two-variable fragment

ExpTime upper bound for GF2.
Tree models, unravelling, alternating Turing machines 

Day 3

Lecture 5 (IEP): The Goedel fragment

Prenex form and quantifier prefixe fragments.
The standard prefix clases and effective closure under conjunciton 
The Bernays-Schoenfinkel fragment
The Goedel fragment upper complexity bound (using Kalmar's argument.
Historical notes and relation to the two-variable fragment.

Lecture 6 (BB): The guarded fragment

Normal forms
Upper complexity bounds for GF (generalization from Lecture 4).
The finite model property via the probabilistic construction.

Day 4

Lecture 7 (BB) Counting quantifiers.

Basic definitions
The one-variable fragment with counting.
Linear Diophantine equations.
The one-variable fragment with counting:
   Normal forms
   The idea of statistical characterizations of structures.
   Complexity analysis.

Lecture 8 (IEP) The two-variable fragment with counting 

Scott normal form.
Rays and star-types.
Chromaticity and differentiation.
The upper complexity bound (sketch proof)

Day 5


Lecture 9 (BB): Something or other.


Lecture 10: Variable-ordering fragments

Index-normal formulas and variable-ordering fragments.
The ordered fragment.
The fluted fragment (history)
Fluted types.
The upper complexity bound for the fluted fragment.
The fluted fragment is non-eleentary (detailed proof omitted)
The adjacent fragment (without proofs).
Extensions with counting.



